---
description: 'Similar to quantileExact, this computes the exact quantile of a numeric data sequence.'
slug: /sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/quantileExactHigh
title: 'quantileExactHigh'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

# quantileExactHigh {#quantileexacthigh}

Similar to `quantileExact`, this computes the exact [quantile](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantile) of a numeric data sequence.

All the passed values are combined into an array, which is then fully sorted, to get the exact value.  The sorting [algorithm's](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/algorithm/sort) complexity is `O(N·log(N))`, where `N = std::distance(first, last)` comparisons.

The return value depends on the quantile level and the number of elements in the selection, i.e. if the level is 0.5, then the function returns the higher median value for an even number of elements and the middle median value for an odd number of elements. Median is calculated similarly to the [median_high](https://docs.python.org/3/library/statistics.html#statistics.median_high) implementation which is used in python. For all other levels, the element at the index corresponding to the value of `level * size_of_array` is returned.

This implementation behaves exactly similar to the current `quantileExact` implementation.

When using multiple `quantile*` functions with different levels in a query, the internal states are not combined (that is, the query works less efficiently than it could). In this case, use the [quantiles](../../../sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/quantiles.md) function.

**Syntax**

```sql
quantileExactHigh(level)(expr)
```

Alias: `medianExactHigh`.

**Arguments**

- `level` — Level of quantile. Optional parameter. Constant floating-point number from 0 to 1. We recommend using a `level` value in the range of `[0.01, 0.99]`. Default value: 0.5. At `level=0.5` the function calculates [median](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Median).
- `expr` — Expression over the column values resulting in numeric [data types](/sql-reference/data-types), [Date](../../../sql-reference/data-types/date.md) or [DateTime](../../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md).

**Returned value**

- Quantile of the specified level.

Type:

- [Float64](../../../sql-reference/data-types/float.md) for numeric data type input.
- [Date](../../../sql-reference/data-types/date.md) if input values have the `Date` type.
- [DateTime](../../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md) if input values have the `DateTime` type.

**Example**

Query:

```sql
SELECT quantileExactHigh(number) FROM numbers(10)
```

Result:

```text
┌─quantileExactHigh(number)─┐
│                         5 │
└───────────────────────────┘
```

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->