---
title: 'Format Settings'
sidebar_label: 'Format Settings'
slug: /operations/settings/formats
toc_max_heading_level: 2
description: 'Settings which control input and output formats.'
---

import ExperimentalBadge from '@theme/badges/ExperimentalBadge';
import BetaBadge from '@theme/badges/BetaBadge';
import SettingsInfoBlock from '@theme/SettingsInfoBlock/SettingsInfoBlock';
import VersionHistory from '@theme/VersionHistory/VersionHistory';

<!-- Autogenerated -->
These settings are autogenerated from [source](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/master/src/Core/FormatFactorySettings.h).

## allow_special_bool_values_inside_variant {#allow_special_bool_values_inside_variant}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Allows to parse Bool values inside Variant type from special text bool values like "on", "off", "enable", "disable", etc.

## bool_false_representation {#bool_false_representation}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="false" />

Text to represent false bool value in TSV/CSV/Vertical/Pretty formats.

## bool_true_representation {#bool_true_representation}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="true" />

Text to represent true bool value in TSV/CSV/Vertical/Pretty formats.

## column_names_for_schema_inference {#column_names_for_schema_inference}

The list of column names to use in schema inference for formats without column names. The format: 'column1,column2,column3,...'

## cross_to_inner_join_rewrite {#cross_to_inner_join_rewrite}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1" />

Use inner join instead of comma/cross join if there are joining expressions in the WHERE section. Values: 0 - no rewrite, 1 - apply if possible for comma/cross, 2 - force rewrite all comma joins, cross - if possible

## date_time_64_output_format_cut_trailing_zeros_align_to_groups_of_thousands {#date_time_64_output_format_cut_trailing_zeros_align_to_groups_of_thousands}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Dynamically trim the trailing zeros of datetime64 values to adjust the output scale to [0, 3, 6],
corresponding to 'seconds', 'milliseconds', and 'microseconds'

## date_time_input_format {#date_time_input_format}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="DateTimeInputFormat" default_value="basic" />

Allows choosing a parser of the text representation of date and time.

The setting does not apply to [date and time functions](../../sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions.md).

Possible values:

- `'best_effort'` — Enables extended parsing.

    ClickHouse can parse the basic `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` format and all [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) date and time formats. For example, `'2018-06-08T01:02:03.000Z'`.

- `'best_effort_us'` — Similar to `best_effort` (see the difference in [parseDateTimeBestEffortUS](../../sql-reference/functions/type-conversion-functions#parsedatetimebesteffortus)

- `'basic'` — Use basic parser.

    ClickHouse can parse only the basic `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` or `YYYY-MM-DD` format. For example, `2019-08-20 10:18:56` or `2019-08-20`.

Cloud default value: `'best_effort'`.

See also:

- [DateTime data type.](../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md)
- [Functions for working with dates and times.](../../sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions.md)

## date_time_output_format {#date_time_output_format}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="DateTimeOutputFormat" default_value="simple" />

Allows choosing different output formats of the text representation of date and time.

Possible values:

- `simple` - Simple output format.

    ClickHouse output date and time `YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss` format. For example, `2019-08-20 10:18:56`. The calculation is performed according to the data type's time zone (if present) or server time zone.

- `iso` - ISO output format.

    ClickHouse output date and time in [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ` format. For example, `2019-08-20T10:18:56Z`. Note that output is in UTC (`Z` means UTC).

- `unix_timestamp` - Unix timestamp output format.

    ClickHouse output date and time in [Unix timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) format. For example `1566285536`.

See also:

- [DateTime data type.](../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md)
- [Functions for working with dates and times.](../../sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions.md)

## date_time_overflow_behavior {#date_time_overflow_behavior}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="DateTimeOverflowBehavior" default_value="ignore" />

Defines the behavior when [Date](../../sql-reference/data-types/date.md), [Date32](../../sql-reference/data-types/date32.md), [DateTime](../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md), [DateTime64](../../sql-reference/data-types/datetime64.md) or integers are converted into Date, Date32, DateTime or DateTime64 but the value cannot be represented in the result type.

Possible values:

- `ignore` — Silently ignore overflows. Result are undefined.
- `throw` — Throw an exception in case of overflow.
- `saturate` — Saturate the result. If the value is smaller than the smallest value that can be represented by the target type, the result is chosen as the smallest representable value. If the value is bigger than the largest value that can be represented by the target type, the result is chosen as the largest representable value.

Default value: `ignore`.

## dictionary_use_async_executor {#dictionary_use_async_executor}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Execute a pipeline for reading dictionary source in several threads. It's supported only by dictionaries with local CLICKHOUSE source.

## errors_output_format {#errors_output_format}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="CSV" />

Method to write Errors to text output.

## exact_rows_before_limit {#exact_rows_before_limit}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

When enabled, ClickHouse will provide exact value for rows_before_limit_at_least statistic, but with the cost that the data before limit will have to be read completely

## format_avro_schema_registry_url {#format_avro_schema_registry_url}

For AvroConfluent format: Confluent Schema Registry URL.

## format_binary_max_array_size {#format_binary_max_array_size}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1073741824" />

The maximum allowed size for Array in RowBinary format. It prevents allocating large amount of memory in case of corrupted data. 0 means there is no limit

## format_binary_max_string_size {#format_binary_max_string_size}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1073741824" />

The maximum allowed size for String in RowBinary format. It prevents allocating large amount of memory in case of corrupted data. 0 means there is no limit

## format_capn_proto_enum_comparising_mode {#format_capn_proto_enum_comparising_mode}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="CapnProtoEnumComparingMode" default_value="by_values" />

How to map ClickHouse Enum and CapnProto Enum

## format_capn_proto_use_autogenerated_schema {#format_capn_proto_use_autogenerated_schema}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use autogenerated CapnProto schema when format_schema is not set

## format_csv_allow_double_quotes {#format_csv_allow_double_quotes}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If it is set to true, allow strings in double quotes.

## format_csv_allow_single_quotes {#format_csv_allow_single_quotes}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

If it is set to true, allow strings in single quotes.

## format_csv_delimiter {#format_csv_delimiter}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Char" default_value="," />

The character to be considered as a delimiter in CSV data. If setting with a string, a string has to have a length of 1.

## format_csv_null_representation {#format_csv_null_representation}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="\N" />

Custom NULL representation in CSV format

## format_custom_escaping_rule {#format_custom_escaping_rule}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="EscapingRule" default_value="Escaped" />

Field escaping rule (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_field_delimiter {#format_custom_field_delimiter}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value=" " />

Delimiter between fields (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_result_after_delimiter {#format_custom_result_after_delimiter}

Suffix after result set (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_result_before_delimiter {#format_custom_result_before_delimiter}

Prefix before result set (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_row_after_delimiter {#format_custom_row_after_delimiter}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="
" />

Delimiter after field of the last column (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_row_before_delimiter {#format_custom_row_before_delimiter}

Delimiter before field of the first column (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_custom_row_between_delimiter {#format_custom_row_between_delimiter}

Delimiter between rows (for CustomSeparated format)

## format_display_secrets_in_show_and_select {#format_display_secrets_in_show_and_select}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Enables or disables showing secrets in `SHOW` and `SELECT` queries for tables, databases,
table functions, and dictionaries.

User wishing to see secrets must also have
[`display_secrets_in_show_and_select` server setting](../server-configuration-parameters/settings#display_secrets_in_show_and_select)
turned on and a
[`displaySecretsInShowAndSelect`](/sql-reference/statements/grant#displaysecretsinshowandselect) privilege.

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## format_json_object_each_row_column_for_object_name {#format_json_object_each_row_column_for_object_name}

The name of column that will be used for storing/writing object names in [JSONObjectEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONObjectEachRow) format.
Column type should be String. If value is empty, default names `row_{i}`will be used for object names.

## format_protobuf_use_autogenerated_schema {#format_protobuf_use_autogenerated_schema}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use autogenerated Protobuf when format_schema is not set

## format_regexp {#format_regexp}

Regular expression (for Regexp format)

## format_regexp_escaping_rule {#format_regexp_escaping_rule}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="EscapingRule" default_value="Raw" />

Field escaping rule (for Regexp format)

## format_regexp_skip_unmatched {#format_regexp_skip_unmatched}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip lines unmatched by regular expression (for Regexp format)

## format_schema {#format_schema}

This parameter is useful when you are using formats that require a schema definition, such as [Cap'n Proto](https://capnproto.org/) or [Protobuf](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/). The value depends on the format.

## format_schema_message_name {#format_schema_message_name}

Define the name of the required message in the schema defined in `format_schema`.
To maintain compatibility with the legacy format_schema format (`file_name:message_name`):

- If `format_schema_message_name` is not specified, the message name is inferred from the `message_name` part of the legacy `format_schema` value.
- If `format_schema_message_name` is specified while using the legacy format, an error will be raised.

## format_schema_source {#format_schema_source}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="file" />

Define the source of `format_schema`.
Possible values:

- 'file' (default):: The `format_schema` is the name of a schema file located in the `format_schemas` directory.
- 'string': The `format_schema` is the literal content of the schema.
- 'query': The `format_schema` is a query to retrieve the schema.
When `format_schema_source` is set to 'query', the following conditions apply:
- The query must return exactly one value: a single row with a single string column.
- The result of the query is treated as the schema content.
- This result is cached locally in the `format_schemas` directory.
- You can clear the local cache using the command: `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE FOR Files`.
- Once cached, identical queries are not executed to fetch the schema again until the cache is explicitly cleared
- In addition to local cache files, Protobuf messages are also cached in memory. Even after clearing the local cache files, the in-memory cache must be cleared using `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE [FOR Protobuf]` to fully refresh the schema.
- Run the query `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE` to clear the cache for both cache files and Protobuf messages schemas at once.

## format_template_resultset {#format_template_resultset}

Path to file which contains format string for result set (for Template format)

## format_template_resultset_format {#format_template_resultset_format}

Format string for result set (for Template format)

## format_template_row {#format_template_row}

Path to file which contains format string for rows (for Template format)

## format_template_row_format {#format_template_row_format}

Format string for rows (for Template format)

## format_template_rows_between_delimiter {#format_template_rows_between_delimiter}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="
" />

Delimiter between rows (for Template format)

## format_tsv_null_representation {#format_tsv_null_representation}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="\N" />

Custom NULL representation in TSV format

## input_format_allow_errors_num {#input_format_allow_errors_num}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="0" />

Sets the maximum number of acceptable errors when reading from text formats (CSV, TSV, etc.).

The default value is 0.

Always pair it with `input_format_allow_errors_ratio`.

If an error occurred while reading rows but the error counter is still less than `input_format_allow_errors_num`, ClickHouse ignores the row and moves on to the next one.

If both `input_format_allow_errors_num` and `input_format_allow_errors_ratio` are exceeded, ClickHouse throws an exception.

## input_format_allow_errors_ratio {#input_format_allow_errors_ratio}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Float" default_value="0" />

Sets the maximum percentage of errors allowed when reading from text formats (CSV, TSV, etc.).
The percentage of errors is set as a floating-point number between 0 and 1.

The default value is 0.

Always pair it with `input_format_allow_errors_num`.

If an error occurred while reading rows but the error counter is still less than `input_format_allow_errors_ratio`, ClickHouse ignores the row and moves on to the next one.

If both `input_format_allow_errors_num` and `input_format_allow_errors_ratio` are exceeded, ClickHouse throws an exception.

## input_format_allow_seeks {#input_format_allow_seeks}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow seeks while reading in ORC/Parquet/Arrow input formats.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_arrow_allow_missing_columns {#input_format_arrow_allow_missing_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow missing columns while reading Arrow input formats

## input_format_arrow_case_insensitive_column_matching {#input_format_arrow_case_insensitive_column_matching}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Ignore case when matching Arrow columns with CH columns.

## input_format_arrow_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference {#input_format_arrow_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format Arrow

## input_format_avro_allow_missing_fields {#input_format_avro_allow_missing_fields}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

For Avro/AvroConfluent format: when field is not found in schema use default value instead of error

## input_format_avro_null_as_default {#input_format_avro_null_as_default}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

For Avro/AvroConfluent format: insert default in case of null and non Nullable colum

## input_format_binary_decode_types_in_binary_format {#input_format_binary_decode_types_in_binary_format}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Read data types in binary format instead of type names in RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes input format

## input_format_binary_read_json_as_string {#input_format_binary_read_json_as_string}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Read values of [JSON](../../sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md) data type as JSON [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md) values in RowBinary input format.

## input_format_bson_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference {#input_format_bson_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip fields with unsupported types while schema inference for format BSON.

## input_format_capn_proto_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference {#input_format_capn_proto_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format CapnProto

## input_format_csv_allow_cr_end_of_line {#input_format_csv_allow_cr_end_of_line}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

If it is set true, \\r will be allowed at end of line not followed by

## input_format_csv_allow_variable_number_of_columns {#input_format_csv_allow_variable_number_of_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Ignore extra columns in CSV input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in CSV input as default values

## input_format_csv_allow_whitespace_or_tab_as_delimiter {#input_format_csv_allow_whitespace_or_tab_as_delimiter}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Allow to use spaces and tabs(\\t) as field delimiter in the CSV strings

## input_format_csv_arrays_as_nested_csv {#input_format_csv_arrays_as_nested_csv}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

When reading Array from CSV, expect that its elements were serialized in nested CSV and then put into string. Example: \"[\"\"Hello\"\", \"\"world\"\", \"\"42\"\"\"\" TV\"\"]\". Braces around array can be omitted.

## input_format_csv_deserialize_separate_columns_into_tuple {#input_format_csv_deserialize_separate_columns_into_tuple}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If it set to true, then separate columns written in CSV format can be deserialized to Tuple column.

## input_format_csv_detect_header {#input_format_csv_detect_header}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Automatically detect header with names and types in CSV format

## input_format_csv_empty_as_default {#input_format_csv_empty_as_default}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Treat empty fields in CSV input as default values.

## input_format_csv_enum_as_number {#input_format_csv_enum_as_number}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Treat inserted enum values in CSV formats as enum indices

## input_format_csv_skip_first_lines {#input_format_csv_skip_first_lines}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="0" />

Skip specified number of lines at the beginning of data in CSV format

## input_format_csv_skip_trailing_empty_lines {#input_format_csv_skip_trailing_empty_lines}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip trailing empty lines in CSV format

## input_format_csv_trim_whitespaces {#input_format_csv_trim_whitespaces}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Trims spaces and tabs (\\t) characters at the beginning and end in CSV strings

## input_format_csv_try_infer_numbers_from_strings {#input_format_csv_try_infer_numbers_from_strings}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will try to infer numbers from string fields.
It can be useful if CSV data contains quoted UInt64 numbers.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_csv_try_infer_strings_from_quoted_tuples {#input_format_csv_try_infer_strings_from_quoted_tuples}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Interpret quoted tuples in the input data as a value of type String.

## input_format_csv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference {#input_format_csv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use some tweaks and heuristics to infer schema in CSV format

## input_format_csv_use_default_on_bad_values {#input_format_csv_use_default_on_bad_values}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Allow to set default value to column when CSV field deserialization failed on bad value

## input_format_custom_allow_variable_number_of_columns {#input_format_custom_allow_variable_number_of_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Ignore extra columns in CustomSeparated input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in CustomSeparated input as default values

## input_format_custom_detect_header {#input_format_custom_detect_header}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Automatically detect header with names and types in CustomSeparated format

## input_format_custom_skip_trailing_empty_lines {#input_format_custom_skip_trailing_empty_lines}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip trailing empty lines in CustomSeparated format

## input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields {#input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

When performing `INSERT` queries, replace omitted input column values with default values of the respective columns. This option applies to [JSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats), [CSV](/interfaces/formats/CSV), [TabSeparated](/interfaces/formats/TabSeparated), [TSKV](/interfaces/formats/TSKV), [Parquet](/interfaces/formats/Parquet), [Arrow](/interfaces/formats/Arrow), [Avro](/interfaces/formats/Avro), [ORC](/interfaces/formats/ORC), [Native](/interfaces/formats/Native) formats and formats with `WithNames`/`WithNamesAndTypes` suffixes.

:::note
When this option is enabled, extended table metadata are sent from server to client. It consumes additional computing resources on the server and can reduce performance.
:::

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## input_format_force_null_for_omitted_fields {#input_format_force_null_for_omitted_fields}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Force initialize omitted fields with null values

## input_format_hive_text_allow_variable_number_of_columns {#input_format_hive_text_allow_variable_number_of_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Ignore extra columns in Hive Text input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in Hive Text input as default values

## input_format_hive_text_collection_items_delimiter {#input_format_hive_text_collection_items_delimiter}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Char" default_value="" />

Delimiter between collection(array or map) items in Hive Text File

## input_format_hive_text_fields_delimiter {#input_format_hive_text_fields_delimiter}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Char" default_value="" />

Delimiter between fields in Hive Text File

## input_format_hive_text_map_keys_delimiter {#input_format_hive_text_map_keys_delimiter}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Char" default_value="" />

Delimiter between a pair of map key/values in Hive Text File

## input_format_import_nested_json {#input_format_import_nested_json}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Enables or disables the insertion of JSON data with nested objects.

Supported formats:

- [JSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow)

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

See also:

- [Usage of Nested Structures](/integrations/data-formats/json/other-formats#accessing-nested-json-objects) with the `JSONEachRow` format.

## input_format_ipv4_default_on_conversion_error {#input_format_ipv4_default_on_conversion_error}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Deserialization of IPv4 will use default values instead of throwing exception on conversion error.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_ipv6_default_on_conversion_error {#input_format_ipv6_default_on_conversion_error}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Deserialization of IPV6 will use default values instead of throwing exception on conversion error.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_json_compact_allow_variable_number_of_columns {#input_format_json_compact_allow_variable_number_of_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Allow variable number of columns in rows in JSONCompact/JSONCompactEachRow input formats.
Ignore extra columns in rows with more columns than expected and treat missing columns as default values.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_json_defaults_for_missing_elements_in_named_tuple {#input_format_json_defaults_for_missing_elements_in_named_tuple}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Insert default values for missing elements in JSON object while parsing named tuple.
This setting works only when setting `input_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects` is enabled.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_empty_as_default {#input_format_json_empty_as_default}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

When enabled, replace empty input fields in JSON with default values. For complex default expressions `input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields` must be enabled too.

Possible values:

- 0 — Disable.
- 1 — Enable.

## input_format_json_ignore_unknown_keys_in_named_tuple {#input_format_json_ignore_unknown_keys_in_named_tuple}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Ignore unknown keys in json object for named tuples.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_ignore_unnecessary_fields {#input_format_json_ignore_unnecessary_fields}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Ignore unnecessary fields and not parse them. Enabling this may not throw exceptions on json strings of invalid format or with duplicated fields

## input_format_json_infer_incomplete_types_as_strings {#input_format_json_infer_incomplete_types_as_strings}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow to use String type for JSON keys that contain only `Null`/`{}`/`[]` in data sample during schema inference.
In JSON formats any value can be read as String, and we can avoid errors like `Cannot determine type for column 'column_name' by first 25000 rows of data, most likely this column contains only Nulls or empty Arrays/Maps` during schema inference
by using String type for keys with unknown types.

Example:

```sql
SET input_format_json_infer_incomplete_types_as_strings = 1, input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects = 1;
DESCRIBE format(JSONEachRow, '{"obj" : {"a" : [1,2,3], "b" : "hello", "c" : null, "d" : {}, "e" : []}}');
SELECT * FROM format(JSONEachRow, '{"obj" : {"a" : [1,2,3], "b" : "hello", "c" : null, "d" : {}, "e" : []}}');
```

Result:

```
┌─name─┬─type───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬─default_type─┬─default_expression─┬─comment─┬─codec_expression─┬─ttl_expression─┐
│ obj  │ Tuple(a Array(Nullable(Int64)), b Nullable(String), c Nullable(String), d Nullable(String), e Array(Nullable(String))) │              │                    │         │                  │                │
└──────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────────┴─────────┴──────────────────┴────────────────┘

┌─obj────────────────────────────┐
│ ([1,2,3],'hello',NULL,'{}',[]) │
└────────────────────────────────┘
```

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_max_depth {#input_format_json_max_depth}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1000" />

Maximum depth of a field in JSON. This is not a strict limit, it does not have to be applied precisely.

## input_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects {#input_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Parse named tuple columns as JSON objects.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_arrays_as_strings {#input_format_json_read_arrays_as_strings}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow parsing JSON arrays as strings in JSON input formats.

Example:

```sql
SET input_format_json_read_arrays_as_strings = 1;
SELECT arr, toTypeName(arr), JSONExtractArrayRaw(arr)[3] from format(JSONEachRow, 'arr String', '{"arr" : [1, "Hello", [1,2,3]]}');
```

Result:

```
┌─arr───────────────────┬─toTypeName(arr)─┬─arrayElement(JSONExtractArrayRaw(arr), 3)─┐
│ [1, "Hello", [1,2,3]] │ String          │ [1,2,3]                                   │
└───────────────────────┴─────────────────┴───────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_bools_as_numbers {#input_format_json_read_bools_as_numbers}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow parsing bools as numbers in JSON input formats.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_bools_as_strings {#input_format_json_read_bools_as_strings}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow parsing bools as strings in JSON input formats.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_numbers_as_strings {#input_format_json_read_numbers_as_strings}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow parsing numbers as strings in JSON input formats.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_read_objects_as_strings {#input_format_json_read_objects_as_strings}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow parsing JSON objects as strings in JSON input formats.

Example:

```sql
SET input_format_json_read_objects_as_strings = 1;
CREATE TABLE test (id UInt64, obj String, date Date) ENGINE=Memory();
INSERT INTO test FORMAT JSONEachRow {"id" : 1, "obj" : {"a" : 1, "b" : "Hello"}, "date" : "2020-01-01"};
SELECT * FROM test;
```

Result:

```
┌─id─┬─obj──────────────────────┬───────date─┐
│  1 │ {"a" : 1, "b" : "Hello"} │ 2020-01-01 │
└────┴──────────────────────────┴────────────┘
```

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_throw_on_bad_escape_sequence {#input_format_json_throw_on_bad_escape_sequence}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Throw an exception if JSON string contains bad escape sequence in JSON input formats. If disabled, bad escape sequences will remain as is in the data.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects {#input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will try to infer named Tuple from JSON objects.
The resulting named Tuple will contain all elements from all corresponding JSON objects from sample data.

Example:

```sql
SET input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects = 1;
DESC format(JSONEachRow, '{"obj" : {"a" : 42, "b" : "Hello"}}, {"obj" : {"a" : 43, "c" : [1, 2, 3]}}, {"obj" : {"d" : {"e" : 42}}}')
```

Result:

```
┌─name─┬─type───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬─default_type─┬─default_expression─┬─comment─┬─codec_expression─┬─ttl_expression─┐
│ obj  │ Tuple(a Nullable(Int64), b Nullable(String), c Array(Nullable(Int64)), d Tuple(e Nullable(Int64))) │              │                    │         │                  │                │
└──────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────────┴─────────┴──────────────────┴────────────────┘
```

Enabled by default.

## input_format_json_try_infer_numbers_from_strings {#input_format_json_try_infer_numbers_from_strings}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will try to infer numbers from string fields.
It can be useful if JSON data contains quoted UInt64 numbers.

Disabled by default.

## input_format_json_use_string_type_for_ambiguous_paths_in_named_tuples_inference_from_objects {#input_format_json_use_string_type_for_ambiguous_paths_in_named_tuples_inference_from_objects}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Use String type instead of an exception in case of ambiguous paths in JSON objects during named tuples inference

## input_format_json_validate_types_from_metadata {#input_format_json_validate_types_from_metadata}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

For JSON/JSONCompact/JSONColumnsWithMetadata input formats, if this setting is set to 1,
the types from metadata in input data will be compared with the types of the corresponding columns from the table.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_max_block_size_bytes {#input_format_max_block_size_bytes}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="0" />

Limits the size of the blocks formed during data parsing in input formats in bytes. Used in row based input formats when block is formed on ClickHouse side.
0 means no limit in bytes.

## input_format_max_bytes_to_read_for_schema_inference {#input_format_max_bytes_to_read_for_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="33554432" />

The maximum amount of data in bytes to read for automatic schema inference.

## input_format_max_rows_to_read_for_schema_inference {#input_format_max_rows_to_read_for_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="25000" />

The maximum rows of data to read for automatic schema inference.

## input_format_msgpack_number_of_columns {#input_format_msgpack_number_of_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="0" />

The number of columns in inserted MsgPack data. Used for automatic schema inference from data.

## input_format_mysql_dump_map_column_names {#input_format_mysql_dump_map_column_names}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Match columns from table in MySQL dump and columns from ClickHouse table by names

## input_format_mysql_dump_table_name {#input_format_mysql_dump_table_name}

Name of the table in MySQL dump from which to read data

## input_format_native_allow_types_conversion {#input_format_native_allow_types_conversion}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow data types conversion in Native input format

## input_format_native_decode_types_in_binary_format {#input_format_native_decode_types_in_binary_format}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Read data types in binary format instead of type names in Native input format

## input_format_null_as_default {#input_format_null_as_default}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Enables or disables the initialization of [NULL](/sql-reference/syntax#literals) fields with [default values](/sql-reference/statements/create/table#default_values), if data type of these fields is not [nullable](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable).
If column type is not nullable and this setting is disabled, then inserting `NULL` causes an exception. If column type is nullable, then `NULL` values are inserted as is, regardless of this setting.

This setting is applicable for most input formats.

For complex default expressions `input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields` must be enabled too.

Possible values:

- 0 — Inserting `NULL` into a not nullable column causes an exception.
- 1 — `NULL` fields are initialized with default column values.

## input_format_orc_allow_missing_columns {#input_format_orc_allow_missing_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow missing columns while reading ORC input formats

## input_format_orc_case_insensitive_column_matching {#input_format_orc_case_insensitive_column_matching}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Ignore case when matching ORC columns with CH columns.

## input_format_orc_dictionary_as_low_cardinality {#input_format_orc_dictionary_as_low_cardinality}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Treat ORC dictionary encoded columns as LowCardinality columns while reading ORC files.

## input_format_orc_filter_push_down {#input_format_orc_filter_push_down}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

When reading ORC files, skip whole stripes or row groups based on the WHERE/PREWHERE expressions, min/max statistics or bloom filter in the ORC metadata.

## input_format_orc_reader_time_zone_name {#input_format_orc_reader_time_zone_name}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="GMT" />

The time zone name for ORC row reader, the default ORC row reader's time zone is GMT.

## input_format_orc_row_batch_size {#input_format_orc_row_batch_size}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Int64" default_value="100000" />

Batch size when reading ORC stripes.

## input_format_orc_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference {#input_format_orc_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format ORC

## input_format_orc_use_fast_decoder {#input_format_orc_use_fast_decoder}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use a faster ORC decoder implementation.

## input_format_parquet_allow_geoparquet_parser {#input_format_parquet_allow_geoparquet_parser}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use geo column parser to convert Array(UInt8) into Point/Linestring/Polygon/MultiLineString/MultiPolygon types

## input_format_parquet_allow_missing_columns {#input_format_parquet_allow_missing_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow missing columns while reading Parquet input formats

## input_format_parquet_bloom_filter_push_down {#input_format_parquet_bloom_filter_push_down}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

When reading Parquet files, skip whole row groups based on the WHERE expressions and bloom filter in the Parquet metadata.

## input_format_parquet_case_insensitive_column_matching {#input_format_parquet_case_insensitive_column_matching}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Ignore case when matching Parquet columns with CH columns.

## input_format_parquet_enable_json_parsing {#input_format_parquet_enable_json_parsing}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

  When reading Parquet files, parse JSON columns as ClickHouse JSON Column.
  
## input_format_parquet_enable_row_group_prefetch {#input_format_parquet_enable_row_group_prefetch}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Enable row group prefetching during parquet parsing. Currently, only single-threaded parsing can prefetch.

## input_format_parquet_filter_push_down {#input_format_parquet_filter_push_down}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

When reading Parquet files, skip whole row groups based on the WHERE/PREWHERE expressions and min/max statistics in the Parquet metadata.

## input_format_parquet_local_file_min_bytes_for_seek {#input_format_parquet_local_file_min_bytes_for_seek}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="8192" />

Min bytes required for local read (file) to do seek, instead of read with ignore in Parquet input format

## input_format_parquet_max_block_size {#input_format_parquet_max_block_size}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="NonZeroUInt64" default_value="65409" />

Max block size for parquet reader.

## input_format_parquet_prefer_block_bytes {#input_format_parquet_prefer_block_bytes}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="16744704" />

Average block bytes output by parquet reader

## input_format_parquet_preserve_order {#input_format_parquet_preserve_order}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Avoid reordering rows when reading from Parquet files. Usually makes it much slower.

## input_format_parquet_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference {#input_format_parquet_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format Parquet

## input_format_parquet_use_native_reader {#input_format_parquet_use_native_reader}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

When reading Parquet files, to use native reader instead of arrow reader.

## input_format_protobuf_flatten_google_wrappers {#input_format_protobuf_flatten_google_wrappers}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Enable Google wrappers for regular non-nested columns, e.g. google.protobuf.StringValue 'str' for String column 'str'. For Nullable columns empty wrappers are recognized as defaults, and missing as nulls

## input_format_protobuf_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference {#input_format_protobuf_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip fields with unsupported types while schema inference for format Protobuf

## input_format_record_errors_file_path {#input_format_record_errors_file_path}

Path of the file used to record errors while reading text formats (CSV, TSV).

## input_format_skip_unknown_fields {#input_format_skip_unknown_fields}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Enables or disables skipping insertion of extra data.

When writing data, ClickHouse throws an exception if input data contain columns that do not exist in the target table. If skipping is enabled, ClickHouse does not insert extra data and does not throw an exception.

Supported formats:

- [JSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats)
- [BSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/BSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats)
- [TSKV](/interfaces/formats/TSKV)
- All formats with suffixes WithNames/WithNamesAndTypes
- [MySQLDump](/interfaces/formats/MySQLDump)
- [Native](/interfaces/formats/Native)

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## input_format_try_infer_dates {#input_format_try_infer_dates}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type `Date` from string fields in schema inference for text formats. If all fields from a column in input data were successfully parsed as dates, the result type will be `Date`, if at least one field was not parsed as date, the result type will be `String`.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_try_infer_datetimes {#input_format_try_infer_datetimes}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type `DateTime64` from string fields in schema inference for text formats. If all fields from a column in input data were successfully parsed as datetimes, the result type will be `DateTime64`, if at least one field was not parsed as datetime, the result type will be `String`.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_try_infer_datetimes_only_datetime64 {#input_format_try_infer_datetimes_only_datetime64}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

When input_format_try_infer_datetimes is enabled, infer only DateTime64 but not DateTime types

## input_format_try_infer_exponent_floats {#input_format_try_infer_exponent_floats}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Try to infer floats in exponential notation while schema inference in text formats (except JSON, where exponent numbers are always inferred)

## input_format_try_infer_integers {#input_format_try_infer_integers}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer integers instead of floats in schema inference for text formats. If all numbers in the column from input data are integers, the result type will be `Int64`, if at least one number is float, the result type will be `Float64`.

Enabled by default.

## input_format_try_infer_variants {#input_format_try_infer_variants}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type [`Variant`](../../sql-reference/data-types/variant.md) in schema inference for text formats when there is more than one possible type for column/array elements.

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## input_format_tsv_allow_variable_number_of_columns {#input_format_tsv_allow_variable_number_of_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Ignore extra columns in TSV input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in TSV input as default values

## input_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line {#input_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

If it is set true, file function will read TSV format with \\r\\n instead of \\n.

## input_format_tsv_detect_header {#input_format_tsv_detect_header}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Automatically detect header with names and types in TSV format

## input_format_tsv_empty_as_default {#input_format_tsv_empty_as_default}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Treat empty fields in TSV input as default values.

## input_format_tsv_enum_as_number {#input_format_tsv_enum_as_number}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Treat inserted enum values in TSV formats as enum indices.

## input_format_tsv_skip_first_lines {#input_format_tsv_skip_first_lines}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="0" />

Skip specified number of lines at the beginning of data in TSV format

## input_format_tsv_skip_trailing_empty_lines {#input_format_tsv_skip_trailing_empty_lines}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip trailing empty lines in TSV format

## input_format_tsv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference {#input_format_tsv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use some tweaks and heuristics to infer schema in TSV format

## input_format_values_accurate_types_of_literals {#input_format_values_accurate_types_of_literals}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

For Values format: when parsing and interpreting expressions using template, check actual type of literal to avoid possible overflow and precision issues.

## input_format_values_deduce_templates_of_expressions {#input_format_values_deduce_templates_of_expressions}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

For Values format: if the field could not be parsed by streaming parser, run SQL parser, deduce template of the SQL expression, try to parse all rows using template and then interpret expression for all rows.

## input_format_values_interpret_expressions {#input_format_values_interpret_expressions}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

For Values format: if the field could not be parsed by streaming parser, run SQL parser and try to interpret it as SQL expression.

## input_format_with_names_use_header {#input_format_with_names_use_header}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Enables or disables checking the column order when inserting data.

To improve insert performance, we recommend disabling this check if you are sure that the column order of the input data is the same as in the target table.

Supported formats:

- [CSVWithNames](/interfaces/formats/CSVWithNames)
- [CSVWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/CSVWithNamesAndTypes)
- [TabSeparatedWithNames](/interfaces/formats/TabSeparatedWithNames)
- [TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactEachRowWithNames](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactEachRowWithNames)
- [JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNames](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNames)
- [JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [RowBinaryWithNames](/interfaces/formats/RowBinaryWithNames)
- [RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes)
- [CustomSeparatedWithNames](/interfaces/formats/CustomSeparatedWithNames)
- [CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## input_format_with_types_use_header {#input_format_with_types_use_header}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Controls whether format parser should check if data types from the input data match data types from the target table.

Supported formats:

- [CSVWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/CSVWithNamesAndTypes)
- [TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes)
- [CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/interfaces/formats/CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## insert_distributed_one_random_shard {#insert_distributed_one_random_shard}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Enables or disables random shard insertion into a [Distributed](/engines/table-engines/special/distributed) table when there is no distributed key.

By default, when inserting data into a `Distributed` table with more than one shard, the ClickHouse server will reject any insertion request if there is no distributed key. When `insert_distributed_one_random_shard = 1`, insertions are allowed and data is forwarded randomly among all shards.

Possible values:

- 0 — Insertion is rejected if there are multiple shards and no distributed key is given.
- 1 — Insertion is done randomly among all available shards when no distributed key is given.

## interval_output_format {#interval_output_format}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="IntervalOutputFormat" default_value="numeric" />

Allows choosing different output formats of the text representation of interval types.

Possible values:

- `kusto` - KQL-style output format.

    ClickHouse outputs intervals in [KQL format](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-timespan-format-strings#the-constant-c-format-specifier). For example, `toIntervalDay(2)` would be formatted as `2.00:00:00`. Please note that for interval types of varying length (ie. `IntervalMonth` and `IntervalYear`) the average number of seconds per interval is taken into account.

- `numeric` - Numeric output format.

    ClickHouse outputs intervals as their underlying numeric representation. For example, `toIntervalDay(2)` would be formatted as `2`.

See also:

- [Interval](../../sql-reference/data-types/special-data-types/interval.md)

## output_format_arrow_compression_method {#output_format_arrow_compression_method}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="ArrowCompression" default_value="lz4_frame" />

Compression method for Arrow output format. Supported codecs: lz4_frame, zstd, none (uncompressed)

## output_format_arrow_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array {#output_format_arrow_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use Arrow FIXED_SIZE_BINARY type instead of Binary for FixedString columns.

## output_format_arrow_low_cardinality_as_dictionary {#output_format_arrow_low_cardinality_as_dictionary}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Enable output LowCardinality type as Dictionary Arrow type

## output_format_arrow_string_as_string {#output_format_arrow_string_as_string}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use Arrow String type instead of Binary for String columns

## output_format_arrow_use_64_bit_indexes_for_dictionary {#output_format_arrow_use_64_bit_indexes_for_dictionary}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Always use 64 bit integers for dictionary indexes in Arrow format

## output_format_arrow_use_signed_indexes_for_dictionary {#output_format_arrow_use_signed_indexes_for_dictionary}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use signed integers for dictionary indexes in Arrow format

## output_format_avro_codec {#output_format_avro_codec}

Compression codec used for output. Possible values: 'null', 'deflate', 'snappy', 'zstd'.

## output_format_avro_rows_in_file {#output_format_avro_rows_in_file}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1" />

Max rows in a file (if permitted by storage)

## output_format_avro_string_column_pattern {#output_format_avro_string_column_pattern}

For Avro format: regexp of String columns to select as AVRO string.

## output_format_avro_sync_interval {#output_format_avro_sync_interval}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="16384" />

Sync interval in bytes.

## output_format_binary_encode_types_in_binary_format {#output_format_binary_encode_types_in_binary_format}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Write data types in binary format instead of type names in RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes output format

## output_format_binary_write_json_as_string {#output_format_binary_write_json_as_string}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Write values of [JSON](../../sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md) data type as JSON [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md) values in RowBinary output format.

## output_format_bson_string_as_string {#output_format_bson_string_as_string}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Use BSON String type instead of Binary for String columns.

## output_format_csv_crlf_end_of_line {#output_format_csv_crlf_end_of_line}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

If it is set true, end of line in CSV format will be \\r\\n instead of \\n.

## output_format_csv_serialize_tuple_into_separate_columns {#output_format_csv_serialize_tuple_into_separate_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If it set to true, then Tuples in CSV format are serialized as separate columns (that is, their nesting in the tuple is lost)

## output_format_decimal_trailing_zeros {#output_format_decimal_trailing_zeros}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Output trailing zeros when printing Decimal values. E.g. 1.230000 instead of 1.23.

Disabled by default.

## output_format_json_array_of_rows {#output_format_json_array_of_rows}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Enables the ability to output all rows as a JSON array in the [JSONEachRow](/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) format.

Possible values:

- 1 — ClickHouse outputs all rows as an array, each row in the `JSONEachRow` format.
- 0 — ClickHouse outputs each row separately in the `JSONEachRow` format.

**Example of a query with the enabled setting**

Query:

```sql
SET output_format_json_array_of_rows = 1;
SELECT number FROM numbers(3) FORMAT JSONEachRow;
```

Result:

```text
[
{"number":"0"},
{"number":"1"},
{"number":"2"}
]
```

**Example of a query with the disabled setting**

Query:

```sql
SET output_format_json_array_of_rows = 0;
SELECT number FROM numbers(3) FORMAT JSONEachRow;
```

Result:

```text
{"number":"0"}
{"number":"1"}
{"number":"2"}
```

## output_format_json_escape_forward_slashes {#output_format_json_escape_forward_slashes}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Controls escaping forward slashes for string outputs in JSON output format. This is intended for compatibility with JavaScript. Don't confuse with backslashes that are always escaped.

Enabled by default.

## output_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects {#output_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Serialize named tuple columns as JSON objects.

Enabled by default.

## output_format_json_pretty_print {#output_format_json_pretty_print}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

When enabled, values of complex data types like Tuple/Array/Map in JSON output format in 'data' section will be printed in pretty format.

Enabled by default.

## output_format_json_quote_64bit_floats {#output_format_json_quote_64bit_floats}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Controls quoting of 64-bit [floats](../../sql-reference/data-types/float.md) when they are output in JSON* formats.

Disabled by default.

## output_format_json_quote_64bit_integers {#output_format_json_quote_64bit_integers}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Controls quoting of 64-bit or bigger [integers](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md) (like `UInt64` or `Int128`) when they are output in a [JSON](/interfaces/formats/JSON) format.
Such integers are enclosed in quotes by default. This behavior is compatible with most JavaScript implementations.

Possible values:

- 0 — Integers are output without quotes.
- 1 — Integers are enclosed in quotes.

## output_format_json_quote_decimals {#output_format_json_quote_decimals}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Controls quoting of decimals in JSON output formats.

Disabled by default.

## output_format_json_quote_denormals {#output_format_json_quote_denormals}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Enables `+nan`, `-nan`, `+inf`, `-inf` outputs in [JSON](/interfaces/formats/JSON) output format.

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

**Example**

Consider the following table `account_orders`:

```text
┌─id─┬─name───┬─duration─┬─period─┬─area─┐
│  1 │ Andrew │       20 │      0 │  400 │
│  2 │ John   │       40 │      0 │    0 │
│  3 │ Bob    │       15 │      0 │ -100 │
└────┴────────┴──────────┴────────┴──────┘
```

When `output_format_json_quote_denormals = 0`, the query returns `null` values in output:

```sql
SELECT area/period FROM account_orders FORMAT JSON;
```

```json
{
        "meta":
        [
                {
                        "name": "divide(area, period)",
                        "type": "Float64"
                }
        ],

        "data":
        [
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": null
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": null
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": null
                }
        ],

        "rows": 3,

        "statistics":
        {
                "elapsed": 0.003648093,
                "rows_read": 3,
                "bytes_read": 24
        }
}
```

When `output_format_json_quote_denormals = 1`, the query returns:

```json
{
        "meta":
        [
                {
                        "name": "divide(area, period)",
                        "type": "Float64"
                }
        ],

        "data":
        [
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": "inf"
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": "-nan"
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": "-inf"
                }
        ],

        "rows": 3,

        "statistics":
        {
                "elapsed": 0.000070241,
                "rows_read": 3,
                "bytes_read": 24
        }
}
```

## output_format_json_skip_null_value_in_named_tuples {#output_format_json_skip_null_value_in_named_tuples}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Skip key value pairs with null value when serialize named tuple columns as JSON objects. It is only valid when output_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects is true.

## output_format_json_validate_utf8 {#output_format_json_validate_utf8}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Controls validation of UTF-8 sequences in JSON output formats, doesn't impact formats JSON/JSONCompact/JSONColumnsWithMetadata, they always validate UTF-8.

Disabled by default.

## output_format_markdown_escape_special_characters {#output_format_markdown_escape_special_characters}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

When enabled, escape special characters in Markdown.

[Common Mark](https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/#example-12) defines the following special characters that can be escaped by \:

```
! " # $ % & ' ( ) * + , - . / : ; < = > ? @ [ \ ] ^ _ ` { | } ~
```

Possible values:

- 0 — Disable.
- 1 — Enable.

## output_format_msgpack_uuid_representation {#output_format_msgpack_uuid_representation}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="MsgPackUUIDRepresentation" default_value="ext" />

The way how to output UUID in MsgPack format.

## output_format_native_encode_types_in_binary_format {#output_format_native_encode_types_in_binary_format}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Write data types in binary format instead of type names in Native output format

## output_format_native_use_flattened_dynamic_and_json_serialization {#output_format_native_use_flattened_dynamic_and_json_serialization}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Write data of [JSON](../../sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md) and [Dynamic](../../sql-reference/data-types/dynamic.md) columns in a flattened format (all types/paths as separate subcolumns).

## output_format_native_write_json_as_string {#output_format_native_write_json_as_string}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Write data of [JSON](../../sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md) column as [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md) column containing JSON strings instead of default native JSON serialization.

## output_format_orc_compression_method {#output_format_orc_compression_method}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="ORCCompression" default_value="zstd" />

Compression method for ORC output format. Supported codecs: lz4, snappy, zlib, zstd, none (uncompressed)

## output_format_orc_dictionary_key_size_threshold {#output_format_orc_dictionary_key_size_threshold}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Double" default_value="0" />

For a string column in ORC output format, if the number of distinct values is greater than this fraction of the total number of non-null rows, turn off dictionary encoding. Otherwise dictionary encoding is enabled

## output_format_orc_row_index_stride {#output_format_orc_row_index_stride}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="10000" />

Target row index stride in ORC output format

## output_format_orc_string_as_string {#output_format_orc_string_as_string}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use ORC String type instead of Binary for String columns

## output_format_orc_writer_time_zone_name {#output_format_orc_writer_time_zone_name}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="GMT" />

The time zone name for ORC writer, the default ORC writer's time zone is GMT.

## output_format_parquet_batch_size {#output_format_parquet_batch_size}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="NonZeroUInt64" default_value="1024" />

Check page size every this many rows. Consider decreasing if you have columns with average values size above a few KBs.

## output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_bits_per_value {#output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_bits_per_value}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Double" default_value="10.5" />

Approximate number of bits to use for each distinct value in parquet bloom filters. Estimated false positive rates:

- 6   bits - 10%
- 10.5 bits -  1%
- 16.9 bits -  0.1%
- 26.4 bits -  0.01%
- 41   bits -  0.001%

## output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_flush_threshold_bytes {#output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_flush_threshold_bytes}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="134217728" />

Where in the parquet file to place the bloom filters. Bloom filters will be written in groups of approximately this size. In particular:

- if 0, each row group's bloom filters are written immediately after the row group,
- if greater than the total size of all bloom filters, bloom filters for all row groups will be accumulated in memory, then written together near the end of the file,
- otherwise, bloom filters will be accumulated in memory and written out whenever their total size goes above this value.

## output_format_parquet_compliant_nested_types {#output_format_parquet_compliant_nested_types}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

In parquet file schema, use name 'element' instead of 'item' for list elements. This is a historical artifact of Arrow library implementation. Generally increases compatibility, except perhaps with some old versions of Arrow.

## output_format_parquet_compression_method {#output_format_parquet_compression_method}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="ParquetCompression" default_value="zstd" />

Compression method for Parquet output format. Supported codecs: snappy, lz4, brotli, zstd, gzip, none (uncompressed)

## output_format_parquet_data_page_size {#output_format_parquet_data_page_size}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1048576" />

Target page size in bytes, before compression.

## output_format_parquet_datetime_as_uint32 {#output_format_parquet_datetime_as_uint32}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Write DateTime values as raw unix timestamp (read back as UInt32), instead of converting to milliseconds (read back as DateTime64(3)).

## output_format_parquet_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array {#output_format_parquet_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use Parquet FIXED_LENGTH_BYTE_ARRAY type instead of Binary for FixedString columns.

## output_format_parquet_geometadata {#output_format_parquet_geometadata}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow to write information about geo columns in parquet metadata and encode columns in WKB format.

## output_format_parquet_parallel_encoding {#output_format_parquet_parallel_encoding}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Do Parquet encoding in multiple threads. Requires output_format_parquet_use_custom_encoder.

## output_format_parquet_row_group_size {#output_format_parquet_row_group_size}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1000000" />

Target row group size in rows.

## output_format_parquet_row_group_size_bytes {#output_format_parquet_row_group_size_bytes}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="536870912" />

Target row group size in bytes, before compression.

## output_format_parquet_string_as_string {#output_format_parquet_string_as_string}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use Parquet String type instead of Binary for String columns.

## output_format_parquet_use_custom_encoder {#output_format_parquet_use_custom_encoder}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Use a faster Parquet encoder implementation.

## output_format_parquet_version {#output_format_parquet_version}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="ParquetVersion" default_value="2.latest" />

Parquet format version for output format. Supported versions: 1.0, 2.4, 2.6 and 2.latest (default)

## output_format_parquet_write_bloom_filter {#output_format_parquet_write_bloom_filter}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Write bloom filters in parquet files. Requires output_format_parquet_use_custom_encoder = true.

## output_format_parquet_write_page_index {#output_format_parquet_write_page_index}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Write column index and offset index (i.e. statistics about each data page, which may be used for filter pushdown on read) into parquet files.

## output_format_pretty_color {#output_format_pretty_color}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64Auto" default_value="auto" />

Use ANSI escape sequences in Pretty formats. 0 - disabled, 1 - enabled, 'auto' - enabled if a terminal.

## output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names {#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1" />

Display column names in the footer if there are many table rows.

Possible values:

- 0 — No column names are displayed in the footer.
- 1 — Column names are displayed in the footer if row count is greater than or equal to the threshold value set by [output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows) (50 by default).

**Example**

Query:

```sql
SELECT *, toTypeName(*) FROM (SELECT * FROM system.numbers LIMIT 1000);
```

Result:

```response
      ┌─number─┬─toTypeName(number)─┐
   1. │      0 │ UInt64             │
   2. │      1 │ UInt64             │
   3. │      2 │ UInt64             │
   ...
 999. │    998 │ UInt64             │
1000. │    999 │ UInt64             │
      └─number─┴─toTypeName(number)─┘
```

## output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows {#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="50" />

Sets the minimum number of rows for which a footer with column names will be displayed if setting [output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names) is enabled.

## output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical {#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If enabled, and the table is wide but short, the Pretty format will output it as the Vertical format does.
See `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk` and `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width` for detailed tuning of this behavior.

## output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk {#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="10" />

The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the number of records in a chunk is not more than the specified value.

## output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_columns {#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_columns}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="5" />

The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the number of columns is greater than the specified value.

## output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width {#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="250" />

The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the sum of lengths of columns in a table is at least the specified value, or if at least one value contains a newline character.

## output_format_pretty_glue_chunks {#output_format_pretty_glue_chunks}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64Auto" default_value="auto" />

If the data rendered in Pretty formats arrived in multiple chunks, even after a delay, but the next chunk has the same column widths as the previous, use ANSI escape sequences to move back to the previous line and overwrite the footer of the previous chunk to continue it with the data of the new chunk. This makes the result more visually pleasant.

0 - disabled, 1 - enabled, 'auto' - enabled if a terminal.

## output_format_pretty_grid_charset {#output_format_pretty_grid_charset}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="UTF-8" />

Charset for printing grid borders. Available charsets: ASCII, UTF-8 (default one).

## output_format_pretty_highlight_digit_groups {#output_format_pretty_highlight_digit_groups}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If enabled and if output is a terminal, highlight every digit corresponding to the number of thousands, millions, etc. with underline.

## output_format_pretty_highlight_trailing_spaces {#output_format_pretty_highlight_trailing_spaces}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If enabled and if output is a terminal, highlight trailing spaces with a gray color and underline.

## output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to {#output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="24" />

If the column name is too long, cut it to this length.
The column will be cut if it is longer than `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to` plus `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut`.

## output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut {#output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="4" />

Minimum characters to cut if the column name is too long.
The column will be cut if it is longer than `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to` plus `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut`.

## output_format_pretty_max_column_pad_width {#output_format_pretty_max_column_pad_width}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="250" />

Maximum width to pad all values in a column in Pretty formats.

## output_format_pretty_max_rows {#output_format_pretty_max_rows}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1000" />

Rows limit for Pretty formats.

## output_format_pretty_max_value_width {#output_format_pretty_max_value_width}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="10000" />

Maximum width of value to display in Pretty formats. If greater - it will be cut.
The value 0 means - never cut.

## output_format_pretty_max_value_width_apply_for_single_value {#output_format_pretty_max_value_width_apply_for_single_value}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="0" />

Only cut values (see the `output_format_pretty_max_value_width` setting) when it is not a single value in a block. Otherwise output it entirely, which is useful for the `SHOW CREATE TABLE` query.

## output_format_pretty_multiline_fields {#output_format_pretty_multiline_fields}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

If enabled, Pretty formats will render multi-line fields inside table cell, so the table's outline will be preserved.
If not, they will be rendered as is, potentially deforming the table (one upside of keeping it off is that copy-pasting multi-line values will be easier).

## output_format_pretty_row_numbers {#output_format_pretty_row_numbers}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Add row numbers before each row for pretty output format

## output_format_pretty_single_large_number_tip_threshold {#output_format_pretty_single_large_number_tip_threshold}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1000000" />

Print a readable number tip on the right side of the table if the block consists of a single number which exceeds this value (except 0)

## output_format_pretty_squash_consecutive_ms {#output_format_pretty_squash_consecutive_ms}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="50" />

Wait for the next block for up to specified number of milliseconds and squash it to the previous before writing.
This avoids frequent output of too small blocks, but still allows to display data in a streaming fashion.

## output_format_pretty_squash_max_wait_ms {#output_format_pretty_squash_max_wait_ms}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="1000" />

Output the pending block in pretty formats if more than the specified number of milliseconds has passed since the previous output.

## output_format_protobuf_nullables_with_google_wrappers {#output_format_protobuf_nullables_with_google_wrappers}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

When serializing Nullable columns with Google wrappers, serialize default values as empty wrappers. If turned off, default and null values are not serialized

## output_format_schema {#output_format_schema}

The path to the file where the automatically generated schema will be saved in [Cap'n Proto](/interfaces/formats/CapnProto) or [Protobuf](/interfaces/formats/Protobuf) formats.

## output_format_sql_insert_include_column_names {#output_format_sql_insert_include_column_names}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Include column names in INSERT query

## output_format_sql_insert_max_batch_size {#output_format_sql_insert_max_batch_size}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64" default_value="65409" />

The maximum number  of rows in one INSERT statement.

## output_format_sql_insert_quote_names {#output_format_sql_insert_quote_names}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Quote column names with '`' characters

## output_format_sql_insert_table_name {#output_format_sql_insert_table_name}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="String" default_value="table" />

The name of table in the output INSERT query

## output_format_sql_insert_use_replace {#output_format_sql_insert_use_replace}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Use REPLACE statement instead of INSERT

## output_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line {#output_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

If it is set true, end of line in TSV format will be \\r\\n instead of \\n.

## output_format_values_escape_quote_with_quote {#output_format_values_escape_quote_with_quote}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

If true escape ' with '', otherwise quoted with \\'

## output_format_write_statistics {#output_format_write_statistics}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Write statistics about read rows, bytes, time elapsed in suitable output formats.

Enabled by default

## precise_float_parsing {#precise_float_parsing}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Prefer more precise (but slower) float parsing algorithm

## regexp_dict_allow_hyperscan {#regexp_dict_allow_hyperscan}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Allow regexp_tree dictionary using Hyperscan library.

## regexp_dict_flag_case_insensitive {#regexp_dict_flag_case_insensitive}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Use case-insensitive matching for a regexp_tree dictionary. Can be overridden in individual expressions with (?i) and (?-i).

## regexp_dict_flag_dotall {#regexp_dict_flag_dotall}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Allow '.' to match newline characters for a regexp_tree dictionary.

## rows_before_aggregation {#rows_before_aggregation}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

When enabled, ClickHouse will provide exact value for rows_before_aggregation statistic, represents the number of rows read before aggregatio

## schema_inference_hints {#schema_inference_hints}

The list of column names and types to use as hints in schema inference for formats without schema.

Example:

Query:

```sql
desc format(JSONEachRow, '{"x" : 1, "y" : "String", "z" : "0.0.0.0" }') settings schema_inference_hints='x UInt8, z IPv4';
```

Result:

```sql
x   UInt8
y   Nullable(String)
z   IPv4
```

:::note
If the `schema_inference_hints` is not formatted properly, or if there is a typo or a wrong datatype, etc... the whole schema_inference_hints will be ignored.
:::

## schema_inference_make_columns_nullable {#schema_inference_make_columns_nullable}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="UInt64Auto" default_value="1" />

Controls making inferred types `Nullable` in schema inference.
If the setting is enabled, all inferred type will be `Nullable`, if disabled, the inferred type will never be `Nullable`, if set to `auto`, the inferred type will be `Nullable` only if the column contains `NULL` in a sample that is parsed during schema inference or file metadata contains information about column nullability.

## schema_inference_make_json_columns_nullable {#schema_inference_make_json_columns_nullable}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

Controls making inferred JSON types `Nullable` in schema inference.
If this setting is enabled together with schema_inference_make_columns_nullable, inferred JSON type will be `Nullable`.

## schema_inference_mode {#schema_inference_mode}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="SchemaInferenceMode" default_value="default" />

Mode of schema inference. 'default' - assume that all files have the same schema and schema can be inferred from any file, 'union' - files can have different schemas and the resulting schema should be the a union of schemas of all files

## show_create_query_identifier_quoting_rule {#show_create_query_identifier_quoting_rule}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="IdentifierQuotingRule" default_value="when_necessary" />

Set the quoting rule for identifiers in SHOW CREATE query

## show_create_query_identifier_quoting_style {#show_create_query_identifier_quoting_style}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="IdentifierQuotingStyle" default_value="Backticks" />

Set the quoting style for identifiers in SHOW CREATE query

## type_json_skip_duplicated_paths {#type_json_skip_duplicated_paths}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="0" />

When enabled, during parsing JSON object into JSON type duplicated paths will be ignored and only the first one will be inserted instead of an exceptio

## validate_experimental_and_suspicious_types_inside_nested_types {#validate_experimental_and_suspicious_types_inside_nested_types}

<SettingsInfoBlock type="Bool" default_value="1" />

Validate usage of experimental and suspicious types inside nested types like Array/Map/Tuple
