This license is available as the file LICENSE in any downloaded version of
WordNet.

WordNet Release 3.0

This software and database is being provided to you, the LICENSEE, by Princeton
University under the following license.  By obtaining, using and/or copying this
software and database, you agree that you have read, understood, and will comply
with these terms and conditions.: Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute
this software and database and its documentation for any purpose and without fee
or royalty is hereby granted, provided that you agree to comply with the
following copyright notice and statements, including the disclaimer, and that
the same appear on ALL copies of the software, database and documentation,
including modifications that you make for internal use or for distribution.
WordNet 3.0 Copyright 2006 by Princeton University.  All rights reserved.  THIS
SOFTWARE AND DATABASE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND PRINCETON UNIVERSITY MAKES NO
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, BUT NOT
LIMITATION, PRINCETON UNIVERSITY MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANT- ABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE
LICENSED SOFTWARE, DATABASE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY
PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS. The name of Princeton
University or Princeton may not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining
to distribution of the software and/or database.  Title to copyright in this
software, database and any associated documentation shall at all times remain
with Princeton University and LICENSEE agrees to preserve same.
