---
description: 'System table containing information about detached parts of MergeTree
  tables'
keywords: ['system table', 'detached_parts']
slug: /operations/system-tables/detached_parts
title: 'system.detached_parts'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

## Description {#purpose}

Contains information about detached parts of [MergeTree](../../engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md) tables. The `reason` column specifies why the part was detached.

For user-detached parts, the reason is empty. Such parts can be attached with [ALTER TABLE ATTACH PARTITION\|PART](/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition#attach-partitionpart) command.

For the description of other columns, see [system.parts](../../operations/system-tables/parts.md).

If part name is invalid, values of some columns may be `NULL`. Such parts can be deleted with [ALTER TABLE DROP DETACHED PART](/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition#drop-detached-partitionpart).

## Columns {#columns}

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
- `database` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The name of the database this part belongs to.
- `table` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The name of the table this part belongs to.
- `partition_id` ([Nullable(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The identifier of the partition this part belongs to.
- `name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The name of the part.
- `bytes_on_disk` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Total size of all the data part files in bytes.
- `modification_time` ([DateTime](/sql-reference/data-types/datetime)) — The time the directory with the data part was modified. This usually corresponds to the time when detach happened.
- `disk` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The name of the disk that stores this data part.
- `path` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The path of the disk to the file of this data part.
- `reason` ([Nullable(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The explanation why this part was detached.
- `min_block_number` ([Nullable(Int64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The minimum number of data parts that make up the current part after merging.
- `max_block_number` ([Nullable(Int64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of data parts that make up the current part after merging.
- `level` ([Nullable(UInt32)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Depth of the merge tree. Zero means that the current part was created by insert rather than by merging other parts.
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->
