---
description: 'Contains a list of all the formats along with flags whether a format is suitable for input/output or whether it supports parallelization.'
keywords: ['system table', 'formats']
slug: /operations/system-tables/formats
title: 'system.formats'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

## Description {#description}

Contains a list of all the formats along with flags whether a format is suitable for input/output or whether it supports parallelization.

## Columns {#columns}

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
- `name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Format name.
- `is_input` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Flag that indicates whether the format is suitable for data input.
- `is_output` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Flag that indicates whether the format is suitable for data output.
- `supports_parallel_parsing` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Flag that indicates whether the format supports parallel parsing.
- `supports_parallel_formatting` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Flag that indicates whether the format supports parallel formatting.
- `is_tty_friendly` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Flag that indicates whether the format usually displays fine in the terminal. For other formats, CLI will ask before output.
- `content_type` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — HTTP Content-Type corresponding to the output format. May depend on the current format settings.
- `supports_random_access` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Flag that indicates whether the format supports random access in the input.
- `has_schema_inference` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The format can dynamically determine the schema from the data (either from embedded header/metadata or from the piece of data).
- `has_external_schema` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The format either has a fixed schema or accepts a predefined schema in its own format.
- `prefers_large_blocks` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The format will write larger blocks into output and generate larger blocks on input.
- `supports_append` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — It's possible to append into a single file with this format.
- `supports_subsets_of_columns` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The input format can recognize when certain columns are omitted.
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->
