---
description: 'System table containing information about projection parts for tables of the MergeTree family.'
keywords: ['system table', 'projection_parts']
slug: /operations/system-tables/projection_parts
title: 'system.projection_parts'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

## Description {#description}

This table contains information about projection parts for tables of the MergeTree family.

## Columns {#columns}

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
- `partition` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The partition name.
- `name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Name of the data part.
- `part_type` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The data part storing format. Possible Values: Wide (a file per column) and Compact (a single file for all columns).
- `parent_name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The name of the source (parent) data part.
- `parent_uuid` ([UUID](/sql-reference/data-types/uuid)) — The UUID of the source (parent) data part.
- `parent_part_type` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The source (parent) data part storing format.
- `active` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Flag that indicates whether the data part is active. If a data part is active, it's used in a table. Otherwise, it's about to be deleted. Inactive data parts appear after merging and mutating operations.
- `marks` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The number of marks. To get the approximate number of rows in a data part, multiply marks by the index granularity (usually 8192) (this hint does not work for adaptive granularity).
- `rows` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The number of rows.
- `bytes_on_disk` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Total size of all the data part files in bytes.
- `data_compressed_bytes` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Total size of compressed data in the data part. All the auxiliary files (for example, files with marks) are not included.
- `data_uncompressed_bytes` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Total size of uncompressed data in the data part. All the auxiliary files (for example, files with marks) are not included.
- `marks_bytes` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The size of the file with marks.
- `parent_marks` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The number of marks in the source (parent) part.
- `parent_rows` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The number of rows in the source (parent) part.
- `parent_bytes_on_disk` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Total size of all the source (parent) data part files in bytes.
- `parent_data_compressed_bytes` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Total size of compressed data in the source (parent) data part.
- `parent_data_uncompressed_bytes` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Total size of uncompressed data in the source (parent) data part.
- `parent_marks_bytes` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The size of the file with marks in the source (parent) data part.
- `modification_time` ([DateTime](/sql-reference/data-types/datetime)) — The time the directory with the data part was modified. This usually corresponds to the time of data part creation.
- `remove_time` ([DateTime](/sql-reference/data-types/datetime)) — The time when the data part became inactive.
- `refcount` ([UInt32](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The number of places where the data part is used. A value greater than 2 indicates that the data part is used in queries or merges.
- `min_date` ([Date](/sql-reference/data-types/date)) — The minimum value of the date key in the data part.
- `max_date` ([Date](/sql-reference/data-types/date)) — The maximum value of the date key in the data part.
- `min_time` ([DateTime](/sql-reference/data-types/datetime)) — The minimum value of the date and time key in the data part.
- `max_time` ([DateTime](/sql-reference/data-types/datetime)) — The maximum value of the date and time key in the data part.
- `partition_id` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — ID of the partition.
- `min_block_number` ([Int64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The minimum number of data parts that make up the current part after merging.
- `max_block_number` ([Int64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The maximum number of data parts that make up the current part after merging.
- `level` ([UInt32](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Depth of the merge tree. Zero means that the current part was created by insert rather than by merging other parts.
- `data_version` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Number that is used to determine which mutations should be applied to the data part (mutations with a version higher than data_version).
- `primary_key_bytes_in_memory` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The amount of memory (in bytes) used by primary key values.
- `primary_key_bytes_in_memory_allocated` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The amount of memory (in bytes) reserved for primary key values.
- `is_frozen` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Flag that shows that a partition data backup exists. 1, the backup exists. 0, the backup does not exist.
- `database` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Name of the database.
- `table` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Name of the table.
- `engine` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Name of the table engine without parameters.
- `disk_name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Name of a disk that stores the data part.
- `path` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Absolute path to the folder with data part files.
- `hash_of_all_files` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — sipHash128 of compressed files.
- `hash_of_uncompressed_files` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — sipHash128 of uncompressed files (files with marks, index file etc.).
- `uncompressed_hash_of_compressed_files` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — sipHash128 of data in the compressed files as if they were uncompressed.
- `delete_ttl_info_min` ([DateTime](/sql-reference/data-types/datetime)) — The minimum value of the date and time key for TTL DELETE rule.
- `delete_ttl_info_max` ([DateTime](/sql-reference/data-types/datetime)) — The maximum value of the date and time key for TTL DELETE rule.
- `move_ttl_info.expression` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Array of expressions. Each expression defines a TTL MOVE rule.
- `move_ttl_info.min` ([Array(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Array of date and time values. Each element describes the minimum key value for a TTL MOVE rule.
- `move_ttl_info.max` ([Array(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Array of date and time values. Each element describes the maximum key value for a TTL MOVE rule.
- `default_compression_codec` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The name of the codec used to compress this data part (in case when there is no explicit codec for columns).
- `recompression_ttl_info.expression` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The TTL expression.
- `recompression_ttl_info.min` ([Array(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The minimum value of the calculated TTL expression within this part. Used to understand whether we have at least one row with expired TTL.
- `recompression_ttl_info.max` ([Array(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The maximum value of the calculated TTL expression within this part. Used to understand whether we have all rows with expired TTL.
- `group_by_ttl_info.expression` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The TTL expression.
- `group_by_ttl_info.min` ([Array(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The minimum value of the calculated TTL expression within this part. Used to understand whether we have at least one row with expired TTL.
- `group_by_ttl_info.max` ([Array(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The maximum value of the calculated TTL expression within this part. Used to understand whether we have all rows with expired TTL.
- `rows_where_ttl_info.expression` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The TTL expression.
- `rows_where_ttl_info.min` ([Array(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The minimum value of the calculated TTL expression within this part. Used to understand whether we have at least one row with expired TTL.
- `rows_where_ttl_info.max` ([Array(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The maximum value of the calculated TTL expression within this part. Used to understand whether we have all rows with expired TTL.
- `is_broken` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Whether projection part is broken
- `exception_code` ([Int32](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Exception message explaining broken state of the projection part
- `exception` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Exception code explaining broken state of the projection part

**Aliases:**

- `bytes` — Alias for `bytes_on_disk`.
- `marks_size` — Alias for `marks_bytes`.
- `part_name` — Alias for `name`.
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->
