---
description: 'System table containing information about quotas.'
keywords: ['system table', 'quotas', 'quota']
slug: /operations/system-tables/quotas
title: 'system.quotas'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

## Description {#description}

Contains information about [quotas](../../operations/system-tables/quotas.md).

## Columns {#columns}

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
- `name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Quota name.
- `id` ([UUID](/sql-reference/data-types/uuid)) — Quota ID.
- `storage` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Storage of quotas. Possible value: 'users.xml' if a quota configured in the users.xml file, 'disk' if a quota configured by an SQL-query.
- `keys` ([Array(Enum8('user_name' = 1, 'ip_address' = 2, 'forwarded_ip_address' = 3, 'client_key' = 4, 'normalized_query_hash' = 7))](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Key specifies how the quota should be shared. If two connections use the same quota and key, they share the same amounts of resources. Values: [] — All users share the same quota, ['user_name'] — Connections with the same user name share the same quota, ['ip_address'] — Connections from the same IP share the same quota. ['client_key'] — Connections with the same key share the same quota. A key must be explicitly provided by a client. When using clickhouse-client, pass a key value in the --quota_key parameter, or use the quota_key parameter in the client configuration file. When using HTTP interface, use the X-ClickHouse-Quota header, ['user_name', 'client_key'] — Connections with the same client_key share the same quota. If a key isn't provided by a client, the quota is tracked for `user_name`, ['client_key', 'ip_address'] — Connections with the same client_key share the same quota. If a key isn't provided by a client, the quota is tracked for ip_address.
- `durations` ([Array(UInt32)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Time interval lengths in seconds.
- `apply_to_all` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Logical value. It shows which users the quota is applied to. Values: 0 — The quota applies to users specify in the apply_to_list. 1 — The quota applies to all users except those listed in apply_to_except.
- `apply_to_list` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — List of user names/roles that the quota should be applied to.
- `apply_to_except` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — List of user names/roles that the quota should not apply to.
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->

## See Also {#see-also}

- [SHOW QUOTAS](/sql-reference/statements/show#show-quotas)
