---
description: 'System table containing formation about quota usage by the current user
  such as how much of the quota is used and how much is left.'
keywords: ['system table', 'quota_usage']
slug: /operations/system-tables/quota_usage
title: 'system.quota_usage'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

import SystemTableCloud from '@site/docs/_snippets/_system_table_cloud.md';

<SystemTableCloud/>

## Description {#description}

Quota usage by the current user: how much is used and how much is left.

## Columns {#columns}

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
- `quota_name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Quota name.
- `quota_key` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Key value.
- `start_time` ([Nullable(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Start time for calculating resource consumption.
- `end_time` ([Nullable(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — End time for calculating resource consumption.
- `duration` ([Nullable(UInt32)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Length of the time interval for calculating resource consumption, in seconds.
- `queries` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current number of executed queries.
- `max_queries` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum allowed number of queries of all types allowed to be executed.
- `query_selects` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current number of executed SELECT queries.
- `max_query_selects` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum allowed number of SELECT queries allowed to be executed.
- `query_inserts` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current number of executed INSERT queries.
- `max_query_inserts` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum allowed number of INSERT queries allowed to be executed.
- `errors` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current number of queries resulted in an error.
- `max_errors` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of queries resulted in an error allowed within the specified period of time.
- `result_rows` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current total number of rows in the result set of all queries within the current period of time.
- `max_result_rows` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum total number of rows in the result set of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `result_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current total number of bytes in the result set of all queries within the current period of time.
- `max_result_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum total number of bytes in the result set of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `read_rows` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current total number of rows read during execution of all queries within the current period of time.
- `max_read_rows` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of rows to read during execution of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `read_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current total number of bytes read during execution of all queries within the current period of time.
- `max_read_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of bytes to read during execution of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `execution_time` ([Nullable(Float64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current total amount of time (in nanoseconds) spent to execute queries within the current period of time
- `max_execution_time` ([Nullable(Float64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum amount of time (in nanoseconds) allowed for all queries to execute within the specified period of time
- `written_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current total number of bytes written during execution of all queries within the current period of time.
- `max_written_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of bytes to written during execution of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `failed_sequential_authentications` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current number of consecutive authentication failures within the current period of time.
- `max_failed_sequential_authentications` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of consecutive authentication failures allowed within the specified period of time.
- `queries_per_normalized_hash` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The current maximum number of executions of any single normalized query within the current period of time.
- `max_queries_per_normalized_hash` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of executions of any single normalized query allowed within the specified period of time.
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->

## See Also {#see-also}

- [SHOW QUOTA](/sql-reference/statements/show#show-quota))
