---
description: 'System table containing information about maximums for all intervals
  of all quotas. Any number of rows or zero can correspond to one quota.'
keywords: ['system table', 'quota_limits']
slug: /operations/system-tables/quota_limits
title: 'system.quota_limits'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

## Description {#description}

Contains information about maximums for all intervals of all quotas. Any number of rows or zero can correspond to one quota.

## Columns {#columns}

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
- `quota_name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Quota name.
- `duration` ([UInt32](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Length of the time interval for calculating resource consumption, in seconds.
- `is_randomized_interval` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Boolean value. It shows whether the interval is randomized. Interval always starts at the same time if it is not randomized. For example, an interval of 1 minute always starts at an integer number of minutes (i.e. it can start at 11:20:00, but it never starts at 11:20:01), an interval of one day always starts at midnight UTC. If interval is randomized, the very first interval starts at random time, and subsequent intervals starts one by one. Values: 0 — Interval is not randomized, 1 — Interval is randomized.
- `max_queries` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum allowed number of queries of all types allowed to be executed.
- `max_query_selects` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum allowed number of SELECT queries allowed to be executed.
- `max_query_inserts` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum allowed number of INSERT queries allowed to be executed.
- `max_errors` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of queries resulted in an error allowed within the specified period of time.
- `max_result_rows` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum total number of rows in the result set of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `max_result_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum total number of bytes in the result set of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `max_read_rows` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of rows to read during execution of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `max_read_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of bytes to read during execution of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `max_execution_time` ([Nullable(Float64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum amount of time (in nanoseconds) allowed for all queries to execute within the specified period of time
- `max_written_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of bytes to written during execution of all queries allowed within the specified period of time.
- `max_failed_sequential_authentications` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of consecutive authentication failures allowed within the specified period of time.
- `max_queries_per_normalized_hash` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — The maximum number of executions of any single normalized query allowed within the specified period of time.
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->
