---
description: 'Contains a list of all ReplicatedMergeTree engine specific settings, their current and default values along with descriptions. You may change any of them in SETTINGS section in CREATE query. '
keywords: ['system table', 'replicated_merge_tree_settings']
slug: /operations/system-tables/replicated_merge_tree_settings
title: 'system.replicated_merge_tree_settings'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

## Description {#description}

Contains a list of all ReplicatedMergeTree engine specific settings, their current and default values along with descriptions. You may change any of them in SETTINGS section in CREATE query. 

## Columns {#columns}

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
- `name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Setting name.
- `value` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Setting value.
- `default` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Setting default value.
- `changed` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — 1 if the setting was explicitly defined in the config or explicitly changed.
- `description` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Setting description.
- `min` ([Nullable(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Minimum value of the setting, if any is set via constraints. If the setting has no minimum value, contains NULL.
- `max` ([Nullable(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Maximum value of the setting, if any is set via constraints. If the setting has no maximum value, contains NULL.
- `disallowed_values` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — List of disallowed values
- `readonly` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Shows whether the current user can change the setting: 0 — Current user can change the setting, 1 — Current user can't change the setting.
- `type` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Setting type (implementation specific string value).
- `is_obsolete` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Shows whether a setting is obsolete.
- `tier` ([Enum8('Production' = 0, 'Obsolete' = 4, 'Experimental' = 8, 'Beta' = 12)](/sql-reference/data-types/enum)) — Support level for this feature. ClickHouse features are organized in tiers, varying depending on the current status of their
  development and the expectations one might have when using them:
  * PRODUCTION: The feature is stable, safe to use and does not have issues interacting with other PRODUCTION features.
  * BETA: The feature is stable and safe. The outcome of using it together with other features is unknown and correctness is not guaranteed. Testing and reports are welcome.
  * EXPERIMENTAL: The feature is under development. Only intended for developers and ClickHouse enthusiasts. The feature might or might not work and could be removed at any time.
  * OBSOLETE: No longer supported. Either it is already removed or it will be removed in future releases.
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->
