---
description: 'System table containing a list of user accounts configured on the server.'
keywords: ['system table', 'users']
slug: /operations/system-tables/users
title: 'system.users'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

## Description {#description}

Contains a list of [user accounts](../../guides/sre/user-management/index.md#user-account-management) configured on the server.

## Columns {#columns}

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
- `name` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — User name.
- `id` ([UUID](/sql-reference/data-types/uuid)) — User ID.
- `storage` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Path to the storage of users. Configured in the access_control_path parameter.
- `auth_type` ([Array(Enum8('no_password' = 0, 'plaintext_password' = 1, 'sha256_password' = 2, 'double_sha1_password' = 3, 'ldap' = 4, 'kerberos' = 5, 'ssl_certificate' = 6, 'bcrypt_password' = 7, 'ssh_key' = 8, 'http' = 9, 'jwt' = 10, 'scram_sha256_password' = 11, 'no_authentication' = 12))](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Shows the authentication types. There are multiple ways of user identification: with no password, with plain text password, with SHA256-encoded password, with double SHA-1-encoded password or with bcrypt-encoded password.
- `auth_params` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Authentication parameters in the JSON format depending on the auth_type.
- `valid_until` ([Array(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The expiration date and time for user credentials.
- `host_ip` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — IP addresses of hosts that are allowed to connect to the ClickHouse server.
- `host_names` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Names of hosts that are allowed to connect to the ClickHouse server.
- `host_names_regexp` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Regular expression for host names that are allowed to connect to the ClickHouse server.
- `host_names_like` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — Names of hosts that are allowed to connect to the ClickHouse server, set using the LIKE predicate.
- `default_roles_all` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — Shows that all granted roles set for user by default.
- `default_roles_list` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — List of granted roles provided by default.
- `default_roles_except` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — All the granted roles set as default excepting of the listed ones.
- `grantees_any` ([UInt8](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — The flag that indicates whether a user with any grant option can grant it to anyone.
- `grantees_list` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The list of users or roles to which this user is allowed to grant options to.
- `grantees_except` ([Array(String)](/sql-reference/data-types/array)) — The list of users or roles to which this user is forbidden from grant options to.
- `default_database` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The name of the default database for this user.
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->

## See also {#see-also}

- [SHOW USERS](/sql-reference/statements/show#show-users)
