---
description: 'System table containing information about Refreshable Materialized Views.'
keywords: ['system table', 'view_refreshes']
slug: /operations/system-tables/view_refreshes
title: 'system.view_refreshes'
doc_type: 'reference'
---

import SystemTableCloud from '@site/docs/_snippets/_system_table_cloud.md';

<SystemTableCloud/>

## Description {#description}

Information about [Refreshable Materialized Views](../../sql-reference/statements/create/view.md#refreshable-materialized-view). Contains all refreshable materialized views, regardless of whether there's a refresh in progress or not.

## Columns {#columns}

<!--AUTOGENERATED_START-->
- `database` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — The name of the database the table is in.
- `view` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Table name.
- `uuid` ([UUID](/sql-reference/data-types/uuid)) — Table uuid (Atomic database).
- `status` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Current state of the refresh.
- `last_success_time` ([Nullable(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Time when the latest successful refresh started. NULL if no successful refreshes happened since server startup or table creation.
- `last_success_duration_ms` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — How long the latest refresh took.
- `last_refresh_time` ([Nullable(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Time when the latest refresh attempt finished (if known) or started (if unknown or still running). NULL if no refresh attempts happened since server startup or table creation.
- `last_refresh_replica` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — If coordination is enabled, name of the replica that made the current (if running) or previous (if not running) refresh attempt.
- `next_refresh_time` ([Nullable(DateTime)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Time at which the next refresh is scheduled to start, if status = Scheduled.
- `exception` ([String](/sql-reference/data-types/string)) — Error message from previous attempt if it failed.
- `retry` ([UInt64](/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)) — How many failed attempts there were so far, for the current refresh. Not available if status is `RunningOnAnotherReplica`.
- `progress` ([Nullable(Float64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Progress of the current running or most recently completed refresh at the given replica, between 0 and 1. NULL if status is `RunningOnAnotherReplica` or the refresh is not running.
- `read_rows` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Number of rows read by the current running or most recently completed refresh at the given replica. NULL if status is `RunningOnAnotherReplica`.
- `read_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Number of bytes read by the current running or most recently completed refresh at the given replica. NULL if status is `RunningOnAnotherReplica`
- `total_rows` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Estimated total number of rows that need to be read by the current running or most recently completed refresh at the given replica. NULL if status is `RunningOnAnotherReplica`
- `written_rows` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Number of rows written by the current running or most recently completed refresh at the given replica. NULL if status is `RunningOnAnotherReplica`
- `written_bytes` ([Nullable(UInt64)](/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)) — Number of bytes written by the current running or most recently completed refresh at the given replica. NULL if status is `RunningOnAnotherReplica`
<!--AUTOGENERATED_END-->

## Example {#example}

```sql
SELECT
    database,
    view,
    status,
    last_refresh_result,
    last_refresh_time,
    next_refresh_time
FROM system.view_refreshes

┌─database─┬─view───────────────────────┬─status────┬─last_refresh_result─┬───last_refresh_time─┬───next_refresh_time─┐
│ default  │ hello_documentation_reader │ Scheduled │ Finished            │ 2023-12-01 01:24:00 │ 2023-12-01 01:25:00 │
└──────────┴────────────────────────────┴───────────┴─────────────────────┴─────────────────────┴─────────────────────┘
```
